Readme.md, before:

# Code test for data engineering candidates: Solution

This repository contains a solution to [this code test](https://github.com/nysthee/recruitment-test-data-engineering).

## Solution summary

- The database schema is defined in schema.sql.
- The dataloader docker image contains the data loading application. It can be found in the images/dataloader folder. The application was implemented using pyspark. The containerization of spark was based on the example [here](https://github.com/datamechanics/examples/tree/main/pyspark-example).
- The datasummerizer docker image contains the summerizing application. It can be found in the images/datasummerizer folder. The application was also implemented using pyspark.
- Application logs are stored inside the logs folder (Not included in repository).

## Detailed documentation

This can be found as comments in the scripts of the applications.

## Setup

### Requirements

Make sure you have recent versions of Docker and Docker Compose.

### Building the images

This will build all of the images referenced in the Docker Compose file.
```
docker compose build
```

### Starting MySQL

To start up the MySQL database.

```
docker compose up database
```

### Load the schema

```
docker compose exec --no-TTY database mysql --host=database --user=codetest --password=swordfish codetest <schema.sql
```

### Query the database

```
docker compose exec database mysql --host=database --user=codetest --password=swordfish codetest
```

### Starting the applications

To start up the data loader.

```
docker compose run dataloader driver local:///opt/application/dataloader.py
```

To start up the data summarizer.
```
docker compose run datasummarizer driver local:///opt/application/datasummarizer.py
```

### Cleaning up

To tidy up, bringing down all the containers and deleting them.

```
docker compose down
```

## Possible extensions

This solution could be extended by:
- Credential management, in order to have no passwords in the repository
- Duplicate handling (in case new data is expected)
- Distributed implementation (in case big data volumes are expected)
- A testing framework, both unit and integration tests (in case this project becomes more complex and goes to production)
- An improved exception handling framework, adding more specific handling (e.g. retrying to connect to database)

Commit message:

added unit tests for db functions of dataloader.py

Readme.md, after:

# Code test for data engineering candidates: Solution

This repository contains a solution to [this code test](https://github.com/nysthee/recruitment-test-data-engineering).

## Solution summary

- The database schema is defined in schema.sql.
- The dataloader docker image contains the data loading application. It can be found in the images/dataloader folder. The application was implemented using pyspark. The containerization of spark was based on the example [here](https://github.com/datamechanics/examples/tree/main/pyspark-example).
- The datasummerizer docker image contains the summerizing application. It can be found in the images/datasummerizer folder. The application was also implemented using pyspark.
- Application logs are stored inside the logs folder (Not included in repository).
- For dataloader.py, the helper functions to connect to the database are stored in the db_functions.py file in the lib folder. They are unit tested in test_db_functions.py in the tests folder.

## Detailed documentation

This can be found as comments in the scripts of the applications.

## Setup

### Requirements

Make sure you have recent versions of Docker and Docker Compose.

### Building the images

This will build all of the images referenced in the Docker Compose file.
```
docker compose build
```

### Starting MySQL

To start up the MySQL database.

```
docker compose up database
```

### Load the schema

```
docker compose exec --no-TTY database mysql --host=database --user=codetest --password=swordfish codetest <schema.sql
```

### Query the database

```
docker compose exec database mysql --host=database --user=codetest --password=swordfish codetest
```

### Starting the applications

To start up the data loader.

```
docker compose run dataloader driver local:///opt/application/dataloader.py
```

To start up the data summarizer.
```
docker compose run datasummarizer driver local:///opt/application/datasummarizer.py
```

### Cleaning up

To tidy up, bringing down all the containers and deleting them.

```
docker compose down
```

## Tests

A local installation of spark is requiredd for these tests.
To run the unit tests for db_functions.py, first start the database (after building it):
```
docker compose up database
```

Then run the tests with the following command:
```
spark-submit test_db_functions.py
```

## Possible extensions

This solution could be extended by:
- An improved testing framework, adding tests for both dataloader.py and datasummarizer.py and the entire application as a whole (dataloader + datasummarizer)
- Credential management, in order to have no passwords in the repository
- Duplicate handling (in case new data is expected)
- Distributed implementation (in case big data volumes are expected)
- An improved exception handling framework, adding more specific handling (e.g. retrying to connect to database)
